Although Basecamp has powerful project management features, several flaws prevent it from being the ideal tool for localization project management. In addition, a language service provider (LSP) who implements Basecamp may find their systems becoming fragmented and disjointed. LSPs should consider project management tools that avoid Basecamp's pitfalls while at the same time provide additional support for business processes.
The first major flaw of Basecamp for project management is the lack of privacy settings on the project discussion board. Why is this an issue? LSPs utilize a massive base of freelance translators in order to complete projects. However, allowing these freelancers to communicate with the client is often prohibited in the LSP's terms and conditions agreement. Basecamp falls short in that freelancers working on the project are technically not restricted to contacting the client on the discussion forum. This could result in breaches of an LSPs terms and conditions agreement.
The second flaw, albeit not major, is Basecamp's lack of overall progress monitoring. When a task is completed in Basecamp, the completed task can no longer be shown alongside the rest of the tasks that remain to be completed. The user must click on a separate window to view all the completed tasks. Why is this an issue? The localization project manager needs quick access no not only tasks that lie ahead, but completed tasks. Clients often need status updates on their projects, and the project manager should be able to see at a glance both completed tasks and tasks ahead.
The third flaw is Basecamp's simplistic file management system. Any given LSP pushes through mountains of content each day, in the form of thousands upon thousands of files (mostly word documents). Any given project can have dozens of files being translated into dozens of languages, going through up to 6-8 stages of handoffs. Basecamp has file upload functionality for its tasks, but when there are hundreds of tasks in a single project, file naming, workflows, and handoffs become a headache. For such projects, an LSP would do well to consider a more robust project management system that has a streamlined way to customize workflows, handoffs, and file naming.
Even with these three flaws, Basecamp performs reasonably well as a general project management platform. Perhaps certain projects in certain industries don't require strict separation between client and vendor users. Perhaps overall progress monitoring isn't an issue for these kinds of projects. But for localization project management, Basecamp falls short not only in the three mentioned areas, but also in a fourth, more general consideration.
Localization project management is not an isolated activity. It is connected with linguistic resource management (TMs and TBs, machine translation), human resources (including vendor management), accounting, and sales. Basecamp, as solely a project management system, operates in a silo. On the other hand, today's flagship off-the-shelf translation management systems take into account not only the needs of project management, but the entire LSP as a whole. Although Basecamp may be an attractive, less expensive option, it will eventually become just a cog in a complex, fragmented, and disjointed collection of systems intended to serve each department individually. LSPs prepared for growth will set their eyes on system consolidation and simplification.
Comprehensive translation management systems like XTRF or Plunet present a consolidated feature set not only for project management, but for the LSP as a whole. Not only do these systems provide robust project management features tailored for translation and localization, but they offer accounting, vendor management, and even CRM features. These features support the activities of the LSP as a whole and reduce "system clutter."
When evaluating a project management system like Basecamp, the real question LSPs should be asking is this: "is our company prepared to invest in connecting a conglomeration of disparate systems across departments, or would a more holistic approach be more advantageous?" In my experience working with several LSPs, attempting to integrate and adapt isolated, generic systems like Basecamp for project management has been unsuccessful, costly, and time-consuming. LSPs should strongly consider using a tool built specifically for the task of localization project management.
