At this stage you are using documented processes to capture transactional workforce data (things like headcount, turnover, and breakdown of permanent or contract employees) that is clean and connected, working towards a single source of truth.
Ultimately, however, reports have limited inherent meaning until you aggregate, segment or analyze patterns within the data.
Some organizations are just getting started and need help mastering reporting or gathering all of their data in one place.  
“To sit back and to see a full year of data, to look at that information on a monthly basis to see what we are doing, to look at it collectively – the HR, payroll, benefits, and LMS teams – and see the volume of what is actually going through our system is very impressive.”
What’s possible?
Descriptive data tells you more about what’s happening.
It makes basic report data easier to understand and visualize, so you can monitor key metrics and trends and gain a deeper understanding of what the data means, identifying any issues you need to address.
Benchmarking data helps to give you context (by geography, industry, company size and so on) at the descriptive stage.
But if you’re new to benchmarking, it can be hard to know what kind of data you need, and where to get it.
Many HR professionals will be familiar with compensation survey data, but this is often dated information – and it’s self-reported, of course, so its integrity isn’t always guaranteed. 
Workforce decisions are often swayed by emotion and guesswork.
This is especially true in scenarios such as compensation requests, when it can be extremely difficult for managers to objectively judge a salary request against a specific role, and the value it creates for the organization.
You need real, transactional pay and HR data of a volume, variety and velocity that can give you confidence in your analysis. For more on this, take a look at the section on using benchmarking data in Step 1: Investigate Benchmarking.
A leading transportation organization’s payroll and HR team was receiving a large number of salary requests from their transit hub management team.
The team wanted to evaluate these compensation requests with the right contextual data.
When you’re setting salaries, it pays to get as local as possible with your competitive analysis:
Compensation for a role in upstate New York can vary greatly from the same role in the Manhattan metro area. 
Anonymized benchmarking data, segmented by local region, can help managers make these calls, with the facts to back up their decisions.
By taking advantage of extensive benchmarking data about workers in similar roles, functions, industry and regions, the transportation company’s managers are now able to bring objectivity to their judgements on salary. 
With a clearer view of the real-world value of a position, they can ensure their compensation discussions are backed up by knowledge of industry standards.
What’s possible?
You can use historical data to anticipate what’s likely to happen (things like employee turnover, customer purchase, and inbound contact center traffic) – and then use these insights as part of your decision-making process.
line 24 is very different
second to last sentence mostly the same
last sentence exactly the same